[Kibana Stack Connector] MCP stack connector docs (#249013)
elastic/kibana: docs/reference/connectors-kibana/mcp-action-type.md

:::{image} ../images/mcp-connector.png
:alt: MCP connector
:screenshot:
:::

### Connector configuration [mcp-connector-configuration]

MCP connectors have the following configuration properties:

Name
:   The name of the connector.

Server URL
:   The URL of the MCP server.

HTTP headers (under Additional settings)
:   A custom set of HTTP headers that you can use to connect to an MCP server.

    Config
    :   If you choose the config type, values in headers will be sent as plain text in requests.   

    Secret {applies_to}`stack: ga 9.2` 
    :   If you choose the secret type, values in your headers will be encrypted in requests. 

## Test connectors [mcp-action-configuration]

You can test connectors as you’re creating or editing the connector in {{kib}}. For example:

:::{image} ../images/mcp-test-connector.png
:alt: MCP test connector
:screenshot:
:::

MCP connectors offer three actions:

test
:   Test the connection to the remote MCP server with any auth that was provided.

listTools
:   Call the MCP server's listTools endpoint. Returns a list of tools and their input and output schemas.

callTool
:   Call a specific MCP server tool.

> Be sure to call listTools first to understand how to correctly call an MCP server's tools before using the callTool action. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`test`
:   Test the connection to the remote MCP server with any auth that was provided.

`listTools`
:   Call the MCP server's `listTools` endpoint. Returns a list of tools and their input and output schemas.

`callTool`
:   Call a specific MCP server tool.

:::{tip)
Call `listTools` first to understand how to correctly call an MCP server's tools, before using the `callTool` action. 
:::
```

nits to use backticks and wrap tip in an admonition 🤓

---
navigation_title: "MCP"
mapped_pages:
  - https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/kibana/current/mcp-action-type.html
applies_to:
  stack: preview 9.3 
  serverless: preview
---

# MCP connector and action [mcp-action-type]

> The Model Context Protocol (MCP) connector communicates with remote [MCP](https://modelcontextprotocol.io/docs/getting-started/intro) servers to retrieve and call their tools. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Model Context Protocol (MCP) connector communicates with remote [MCP](https://modelcontextprotocol.io/docs/getting-started/intro) servers to retrieve and call their tools. For example, this connector is required to use external MCP tools in [Elastic Agent Builder](docs-content://explore-analyze/ai-features/elastic-agent-builder.md).
```
